+++
date = "2016-09-10"
draft = true
title = "Beer Nerds vs. Normies"
summary = "Is it better to appeal to the nerds or the regulars? Can you appeal to both?"
+++

Can you appeal to both beer nerds and normal beer drinkers?

Beer nerds are a strange breed. As a card-carrying member of this group I literally have two cards in my wallet that prove my status: 

1. Beer Judge Certification Card
2. Certified Beer Server 

And...what the...a "Sub Club" card 1-stamp short of a free six-inch sub. Do they even do that anymore? How long as this been in there? 


I but may describe my mental status, "That one is 1-stamp short of a free sub, amiright?"
Annnnd that terrible joke cements my Nerd status. 

As the beer industry grows in leaps and bounds, there are 3 paths for recruitment. Macro Drinkers, Non-beer drinkers and New Drinkers (as in recently legal). 

## The Macro Drinker

They already drink beer, sure they prefer the neutral stuff but with the right stepping stone they may find their way into the craft beer fold. Then again, is that likely to work? Swapping mass market swill for a small-scale version of the same thing is simple slight of hand -- it doesn't move the drinker meaningfully closer to craft. It's like trading one set of training wheels for another more expensive, hand-crafted set. They're no closer to riding properly. What we want is to take away one of the training wheels. Make them a little unsteady. They may be unsure about that gateway beer. Some will retreat to the comfort of 2 training wheels. Others, emboldened by their success, will ditch the other. 


 than opening a gateway to craft. training wheels. But if you do provide a gateway beer, the beer nerds will scoff. Except that the gateway beer is the Pilsner and they are cool again...for now. 

Who knew drinking increasingly bitter, increasingly boozey IPA's would grow tiresome? The "craft" pilsener boom and New England Style IPA (all the flavor & aroma without the bitterness) is pretty clearly a response to the hops arms race that catupulted the West Coast to IPA dominance. But there is a reason the most popular IPA in the US has a healthy dose of caramel sweetness to "mellow the twang of the hops." 

The weird thing is that I think it is actually EASIER to recruit a non-beer drinker into the craft beer ranks than a lifelong Budweiser drinker. I entered the craft beer world because I found Bud/Miller/COors to be bland and boring. I was looking for more flavor & aroma -- I already had the curiosity and motivation. Someone just had to put the right, accesible craft beer in my hand that was bold enough to represent an upgrade over BMC but not so bold as to offend. 

The underlying issue is that people like me will always be searching for something new & different. People who like mainstream beer are unlikely to graduate past their entry level beer and you are stuck making a boring beer just to be a gateway where people stand like their on a cigarette break. 

